# majorly_meteoric
This module is for accessing meteor fall data from the public s3 bucket 'majorly-meteoric', and using the dataset to determine
  (1) the average mass of meteor impacts
  (2) the year with the highest number of meteor falls.

Output is displayed, and saved to the file ```results.csv```.

## Contents

```
requirements.txt
```
 A list of dependencies generated by pipreqs.

```
___main__.py
```
Top-level script. Module is run by executing ```python __main__.py```. As of the addition of the API, it runs continuously every 24hrs
when executed. 

```
utils.py
```
Contains functions that ingests dataset, and perform mass and year calculations.
  _get_meteor_data()_ -- iteratively pulls meteor files from s3 bucket and concatenates them into singular DataFrame
  _find_avg_mass()_ -- calculates the average mass of incidents with non-null mass values
  _find_year_with_most_falls()_ -- calculates the year with the highest number of fall incidents for entries with non-null year values


```
/spring_boot_api
```
Contains code for the Spring Boot-based API, which has two endpoints corresponding to each of the questions of
average mass (_/get_average_mass_) and the year with the highest number of impacts (_/year_with_most_falls_). To run the API
locally, open the spring_boot_api directory in your preferred IDE or Java environment, move the current directory
to _spring_boot_api/complete_ and execute `./mvnw -e springboot:run` from the commandline. Then, navigate in your browser to
localhost port 8080 to interact with the API. 

## Acknowledgements

1. I would have liked to include a setup bash script that instantiated a virtual environment for execution and dependencies, but was unable to due to compatibility issues on my machine.
2. The dataset contained one entry with a year in the future. This did not ultimately affect the answers, but it was worth noting.
3. A utilities _class_ did not seem necessary due to the relative simplicity of the calculations.
4. Thanks, Patrick! This was a great exercise.
